# 1st CTA-Oz-School

This school is aimed to introduce students/postdocs/anyone to the analysis tools used to process high-level CTA data.

High-level data comprise event lists and instrument response functions - similar to the concept of NASA's analysis software to analyse, for example, Swift-XRT or Fermi-LAT data.

The data to be used are from the first CTA data challenge. They have been generated by CTA to estimate its science capabilities and tune its science cases (https://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07997). State-of-the-art physics models have been used as input for the simulations, such as known bright sources, interstellar emission, and dark matter. Multiple datasets are available, covering four of CTA's Key Science Projects: Galactic Plane Scan, Galactic Centre Survey, Extragalactic Survey, and AGN monitoring.

The data challenge aims to develop high-level analysis tools (so-called science tools) and engage people to get involved at an early stage. These tools are intended to be used also by non-experts and non-CTA members, since CTA will be operated as an open observatory, providing guest observer programs amongst others.

Two science tools are currently under development: gammapy and ctools. Both tools can be executed using the programming language python.

The School will cover the following topics, among others:
- Detection of sources
- Sky maps
- Spectral energy distributions
- Time variabilities
- Extended sources

Knowledge on how to analyse (especially low-level) data is not required for the School. A short introduction on the steps and methods will be provided during the School.

Experience with python is not required, but it is strongly recommended that you familiarise yourself with basic functionalities. So-called ipython/jupyter notebooks will be used for the tutorials. Helpful links will be provided together with the installation instructions.

CTA School times:

Wednesday 5 Dec - start 16:30 approximately; finish 17:30.

Thursday 6 Dec - start 09:00; finish 15:00 approximately. 
